#type: hscript

= dopsolvesetoption =

""" Sets a value on a piece of DOP data when running a [Script Solver
DOP|Node:dop/scriptsolver]. """

:usage: `dopsolvesetoption [-t optiontype] <<object_index>> <<dataname>> <<optionname>> <<value>> `

This is one of a set of commands for use by the [Script Solver
DOP|Node:dop/scriptsolver]. Calling this command will generate an error
if a script solver is not currently solving for objects.

Sets an option value on DOP data on the object specified by
object_index. Note that this object index is not the DOP object
identifier, but an index into the array of objects being solved by the
current script solver.

Generally only data with a corresponding DOP node (use the -n option of
[dopdatatypes|Cmd:dopdatatypes] for a list) will respond to this
command. The optionname will usually match one of the parameters on the
DOP node, but can be any string. The most common data types for this
command will be [Empty Data|Node:dop/emptydata] (for holding custom
data) and [Position|Node:dop/position], [Motion|Node:dop/motion] or [RBD
State|Node:dop/rbdstate] for controlling the motion of an object. But
again, any data type and option name can be specified. The results may
vary.

The optiontype can be one of:

table>>
    tr>>
        td>> int
        td>> An integer.
    tr>>
        td>> bool
        td>> A boolean (true or false) value.
    tr>>
        td>> float
        td>> A floating point number.
    tr>>
        td>> string
        td>> A string value.
    tr>>
        td>> vector2
        td>> A two component vector.
    tr>>
        td>> vector3
        td>> A three component vector.
    tr>>
        td>> vector4
        td>> A four component vector.
    tr>>
        td>> quaternion
        td>> A quaternion, which has the same form as a four component
        vector but has a different interpretation internally.
    tr>>
        td>> matrix3
        td>> A three by three matrix.
    tr>>
        td>> matrix4
        td>> A four by four matrix.
    tr>>
        td>> uv
        td>> A two component vector representing texture coordinates.
    tr>>
        td>> uvw
        td>> A three component vector representing texture coordinates.

If no option type is specified, type float is assumed.

The format of the value depends on the option type. For boolean values,
true, on, and 1 can all be used to represent true, and false, off, and 0
all represent false. For int and float values, a simple number is
specified. A string can be any sequence of characters (enclosed in
quotes if the string contains spaces). For vector and matrix formats,
use the same format as would be used in the expression language. Remember
to enclose the value in quotes on account of the spaces between vector
and matrix components.

@related
    - [dopsolvenumobjects|Exp:dopsolvenumobjects]
    - [dopsolveobject|Exp:dopsolveobject]
    - [dopsolvedopnet|Exp:dopsolvedopnet]
    - [dopsolvetimestep|Exp:dopsolvetimestep]
    - [dopsolveadddata|Cmd:dopsolveadddata]
    - [dopsolvecopydata|Cmd:dopsolvecopydata]
    - [dopsolveremovedata|Cmd:dopsolveremovedata]
    - [Node:dop/scriptsolver]

