#icon: SOP/capture
#tags: character

= Capture Geometry =

"""Uses one or more geometry objects as the skin for a hierarchy of bones or a set of metaball objects."""

This tool is used to bind a character's skin to its [bones|bones] or [muscles|muscles].

== Using Capture Geometry == (includeme)
    
    # Click the [Icon:SOP/capture][Capture Geometry|Node:sop/capture] tool on the __Characters__ tab.
    
    # Select the geometry objects to capture and press ((Enter)) to confirm your selection.
    
    # Select the root object of the capturing hierarchy and press ((Enter)) to confirm your selection.
    
    NOTE:
        The [bones|bones] should be slightly angled so that the capture knows which way it should bend. The geometry should also be slightly curved so that the [bones|bones] fit nicely inside. This prevents the shape from deforming when straightened.
    
    [Image:/images/shelf/hand.jpg]

For specific parameter help see the [Icon:SOP/capture][Capture Geometry|Node:sop/capture] operation.

To fully understand what is done behind the scenes for these two methods, you may wish to look at the SOPs that are added for each of the captured geometry objects.

@parameters

Method:
    Specify whether the tool should replace or append any pre-existing weights on the skin geometry.

Type:
    Biharmonic:
        Computes weights using biharmonic distances.
    Proximity:
        Computes weights using spatial distances.
    Regions:
        Computes weights using the capture regions in bones.

Select:
    Choose how bones are to be selected. If set to __Root of Skeleton__, then selecting an object in the viewport will also select all descendant output objects. If set to __Individual Bones__, then only single bones are selected at a time.

Use Capture Pose:
    Creates a setup that uses the bones' capture pose parameters instead of their transforms at a particular capture frame.

Channel Group Prefix:
    The channel group name prefix used when creating channel groups to contain the newly created channels when setting keys. This is only used when __Use Capture Pose__ is disabled.

Capture Frame:
    The frame to use for capturing the bones to the geometry. This is only used when __Use Capture Pose__ is disabled.

Set Keys on Capturing Hierarchy at Capture Frame:
    Creates keys at the __Capture Frame__ on objects used for capturing. This is only valid when __Use Capture Pose__ is disabled.

Set Keys on Geometry at Capture Frame:
    Creates keys at the __Capture Frame__ on the objects containing the skin geometry. This is only valid when __Use Capture Pose__ is disabled.

Max Iterations:
    The number of biharmonic solver iterations. More iterations produce higher quality results. This is only used when __Type__ is set to __Biharmonic__. 

High Precision:
    If enabled, creates a more precise setup using [Node:sop/solidconform] instead of [Node:sop/solidembed]. This is only used when __Type__ is set to __Biharmonic__.  

<!--
METHOD PARAMETER

The Method parameter controls whether the capturing will replace the
last capture on the geometry or append to it. After the first capture,
it will always append to the existing captures. Appending captures will
allow you to layer onto previous captures. When you are done picking,
and on-screen slider named Blend Factor will appear for you to adjust
the blending of the current capture with the previous capture weights.
To edit your captures after doing multiple captures, use the Edit
Capture Blends operation.

SELECT PARAMETER

The Select parameter controls whether one is to pick the root of the
skeleton for capturing, or whether individual bones are selected
instead. If you are selecting the root object of a skeleton, you do not
need to select a bone; any object that is a parent of all the bones that
you want captured will work. If this parameter is set to Individual
Bones, then all bones that you wish to capture the geometry with must be
selected.

USE CAPTURE POSE, CAPTURE FRAME, AND GROUP PREFIX PARAMETERS

By default, Use Capture Pose is enabled, meaning the capture pose
information is stored in the bones' capture pose parameters. If off, the
Capture Frame parameter specifies the frame number at which to perform
the capturing. Keyframes will be created at this frame on the bone
rotation and end affector transform parameters of the skeleton. This
ensures that your capturing information will not change if you
accidentally adjust a non-animated parameter that modifies the capture
frame.

The Channel Group Prefix specifies the string prefix of the channel
groups that are created to hold these newly created channels when using
the capture frame method.

WHAT TO DO NEXT

After capturing the geometry, use Pose to animate the bones and see if
any capture weights need tweaking. If so, experiment with editing
capture regions (procedurally) or with Paint Capture Layer or Edit
Capture Weights. Mirror Capture Weights will come in handy if you have
painted or hand-edited the weights of one limb and want them reflected
automatically to save time.

-->
