#icon: OBJ_STATE/editcaptureweight
#tags: character

= Edit Capture Weights =

"""Individually modifies point capture weights using slider handles on bones or via a spreadsheet."""

This is useful when you want to set specific capture weights. You can also edit the capture weights interactively by using the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/paintcapturelayer][Paint Capture Layer|paintcapturelayer] tool.

== Using Edit Capture Weights == (includeme)
    
    :task:Modify point capture weights using a spreadsheet:
            
        # Select the points to adjust capture weights.
            
        # Click the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/editcaptureweight] [Edit Capture Weights|Node:sop/captureoverride] tool on the __Rigging__ tab.
    
            [Image:/images/shelf/edit_capture_weights.png]
    
        # Click the __Spreadsheet__ button on the operation controls toolbar and modify the weight values.
    
        NOTE:
            The sum of the capture weights cannot be greater than 1. To automatically balance these values, click the __Normalize__ button.
        
    :task:Modify point capture weights using slider handles:
            
        # Select the points to adjust capture weights.
            
        # Click the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/editcaptureweight] [Edit Capture Weights|Node:sop/captureoverride] tool on the __Rigging__ tab.
            
        # Drag the bone handles to modify the bone's contribution to the selected points.
            [Image:/images/shelf/edit_capture_weights_handles.png]
            
    
    NOTE:
        If you change the point numbers you will alter the capture weights since this tool is based on point numbers.
        
    TIP:
        Clicking on the column header of the Edit Capture Weights tool spreadsheet will select the column instead of sorting. To sort, use the ((RMB)) menu on the column header.
    
For specific parameter help see the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/editcaptureweight] [Edit Capture Weights|Node:sop/captureoverride] node help.

@related
    - [Capture Geometry|/shelf/capturegeometry]
    - [Edit Capture Region|/shelf/editcaptureregions]
    - [Edit Capture Blends|/shelf/editcaptureblends]
    - [Mirror Capture Weights|/shelf/mirrorcaptureweights]
    - [Paint Capture Layer|/shelf/paintcapturelayer]
    - [Align Capture Pose|/shelf/aligncapturepose]
    - [Capture|Node:sop/capture]
    - [Bone Deform|Node:sop/deform]
    - [Cregion|Node:sop/cregion]
    - [Bone Capture Proximity|Node:sop/captureproximity]
    - [Capture Layer Paint|Node:sop/capturelayerpaint]

<!--

The Edit Capture Weights operation is used to individually modify point
capture weights using slider handles on bones or via a spreadsheet.

After selecting the captured points that you wish to modify, slider
handles are created for all currently displayed bones. The position of
the slider knobs on the bones indicates its average influence in the
point selection. The closer the knob is to the tip of its bone, the
higher the influence. To change your point selection, use the "Reselect
geometry" button in the left toolbar at any time.

When the slider knob is adjusted, the influence of the bone is added
relatively to the point selection if it is moved towards the tip of the
bone, and subtracted when moving away. To use absolute weight, hold down
the shift key while adjusting the knob. This will change the weight of
that bone in all the points to be the same. You can also numerically
control the slider by middle-clicking and then dragging on the knob.

If you right-click on the slider, you have some options controlling the
slider. Of note, the "Clamp negative weights" option is on by default.
This means that when subtracting weight from your point selection, it
will never result in negative weights, stopping at a weight of 0. The
"Absolute Mode" option makes the default dragging behaviour to be in
absolute terms as opposed to relative terms. This option can be thought
of as always holding down the shift key while adjusting the slider.

The weighted bones are always highlighted after making a point
selection. This indicates that they are available in the spreadsheet.
You can bring up the spreadsheet by pressing the spreadsheet button in
the operation controls bar directly above the viewport. To add or remove
capture regions from the spreadsheet, Ctrl+Middle mouse click on the
bone in the viewport. To change a selection here to be all the same
value, highlight the cells and type the weight in the active cell of the
highlighted selection. If you use the middle mouse to drag in this
active cell, then the weights will be changed relatively instead. To
have your cell selection to be highlighted in the viewport instead,
change the Manipulate option in the operation dialog "Spreadsheet
Selection".

For more options, see the Ctrl+Right mouse button menu in the viewport.

-->

