#icon: OBJ_STATE/editcaptureregion
#tags: character

= Edit Capture Regions =

"""Allows you to adjust the bone capture regions."""

Once you have [Icon:SOP/capture][captured geometry|capturegeometry], you can go back and resize the region pills to ensure the transitions are smooth and that there are no gaps.

== Using Edit Capture Region == (includeme)

    # Select the [bones|Node:obj/bone] to edit.
        
    # Click the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/editcaptureregion] [Edit Capture Regions|Node:sop/cregion] tool on the __Characters__ tab.
    
    # Drag the arrows to edit the bone capture regions.
    
    [Image:/images/shelf/edit_capture_region.png]
    
    NOTE:
        You can change the __Edit Region__ in the operations toolbar to Deform Geometry if you want to edit the capture geometry.

@parameters Operation controls

Visualize Bone Colors:
    Colors the skin geometry points according to their captured regions.

Edit Region:
    Edit Capture:
        The handle will modify the capture pose of the regions.
    Deform Geometry:
        The handle will modify the regions at the current animation pose. 
        
        Instead of changing the weights of the skin geometry, this will cause the geometry to deform using the previously captured weights.

For specific parameter help see the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/editcaptureregion] [Edit Capture Regions|Node:sop/cregion] node help.

@related
    - [Capture Geometry|/shelf/capturegeometry]
    - [Edit Capture Weights|/shelf/editcaptureweights]
    - [Edit Capture Blends|/shelf/editcaptureblends]
    - [Mirror Capture Weights|/shelf/mirrorcaptureweights]
    - [Paint Capture Layer|/shelf/paintcapturelayer]
    - [Align Capture Pose|/shelf/aligncapturepose]
    - [Bone Capture|Node:sop/capture]
    - [Bone Deform|Node:sop/deform]

<!--

The Edit Capture Region operation allows you to adjust the bone capture
regions.

After selecting your bones and right-clicking, you are presented with a
capture region handle for each bone in your selection. These handles
manipulate the parameters found in the Capture page of the Bone
parameters dialog.

To adjust the region center, use the provided translate handle. Dragging
on the arrows of the capture region handle will adjust the top or bottom
cap radius. To adjust both the X and Y radius simultaneously, drag on
the cross arches of the caps along the length of the bone. To adjust the
top and bottom heights, drag on the circles along the length of the
bone. Finally, you can symmetrically adjust both the top and bottom
portions at the same time by holding down the Shift key while dragging.

This handle can be also be used as a deformer by keyframing them on
captured geometry. To do this, you MUST first make sure that you create
a keyframe at the capture frame so that you do not modify any of the
capture weights. An easy method to do this is to first go to the capture
frame on the playbar. The default is frame 0 in the Capture Geometry
operation. Now create handles on all the bones you wish to animate. If
you wish to select all bones, you can use the
${h.pane.gview.world.selectall} key. After right-clicking to create the
handles, use the pull-down menu that is located next to the toolbar near
the top of the viewer. Choose the "Set Keyframes For All Handles"
option. This will create all the necessary keyframes. Now to animate,
move the playbar to the frame you wish to change and right-click on the
handle to do a "Set Keyframe". You can now adjust the handle to deform
your geometry. Make sure you also turn off the "Only Update Capture"
operation parameter.

You can edit the capture regions before or after capturing the geometry.
Editing the regions before Capture has the advantage that if you plan to
mirror the bones whose regions you are editing, the changes you are
making at this stage will automatically be inherited by the mirrored
bones once you call up Mirror. Editing the regions after Capture has the
advantage that you can instantly watch the geometry shape and color
change as you modify the capture regions.

-->
