#icon: OBJ_STATE/paintcapturelayer
#tags: character

= Paint Capture Layer =

"""Interactively changes bone or metaball capture weights by painting your geometry."""

This is useful to interactively modify capture weights. It allows you to manually paint the capture weights of your geometry.

== Using Paint Capture Layer == (includeme)
    
    # Click the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/paintcapturelayer][Paint Capture Layer|Node:sop/capturelayerpaint] tool on the __Characters__ tab.
    
    # Select the geometry to paint and press ((Enter)) to confirm your selection.
    
    # Click ((MMB)) the bone to select the capture region.
    
    # Drag the [brush|/basics/brush] over the surface to paint it.
    
    [Image:/images/shelf/paint_capture_layer.png]
    
    NOTE:
        You can modify the __Radius__ and __Opacity__ on the operations toolbar.
    
For specific parameter help see the [Icon:OBJ_STATE/paintcapturelayer][Paint Capture Layer|Node:sop/capturelayerpaint] node help.

@related
    - [Capture Geometry|/shelf/capturegeometry]
    - [Edit Capture Regions|/shelf/editcaptureregions]
    - [Edit Capture Weights|/shelf/editcaptureweights]
    - [Edit Capture Blends|/shelf/editcaptureblends]
    - [Comb|Node:sop/comb]
    - [Sculpt|Node:sop/sculpt]
    - [Paint|Node:sop/paint]
    - [UV Brush|Node:sop/uvbrush]

<!--

The Paint Capture Layer operation allows you to interactively change
bone or metaball capture weights by painting the colors of those weights
on your captured geometry.

After choosing this operation, your first task is to select the geometry
to paint, then right-click (((RMB))) to complete.

Once you've selected your geometry, you can paint it using the currently
selected region (bone or metaball group) by pressing ((LMB)) while
dragging your mouse over the geometry. As you move the mouse over the
geometry, you will see the circular brush follow the surface to show
where you will paint. The size of the brush and its orientation will
show you which points will be affected by painting.

You paint with the weight of one region (bone or metaball group) at a
time. The active region, the region whose weights you will be applying
with the paint operation, is displayed in the top left of the viewport,
along with that region's color. If you are painting bone capture
weights, the active bone will also be highlighted in the 3D viewport.

You can choose which region (bone or metaball group) you're painting
with by using the brush's "Region Selector" operation. When you bind
this this operation to a mouse button by using the operation menu
(((RMB))), you can select which region is active just by brushing
the surface. The region that's most heavily weighted (colored) on the
points you brush will be selected as the active region.

You can also choose the active region by using the Region menu in the
operation toolbox at the top of the 3D viewer.

When you're painting bone capture weights, in addition to using the
Region Selector tool and the Region menu, you can change the active
region by clicking ((Ctrl + MMB)) on the bone you want to paint with.
Clicking ((Ctrl + MMB)) on that bone again will select the null region
(i.e., no bone at all - painting with "white"). Clicking anywhere with
((Ctrl + LMB)) will let you switch back to the last bone you had
selected.

NOTE:
    The null region is an imaginary region that follows the parenting of
    the object. Painting with the null region allows you to create
    capture weights that aren't normalized (sum to 1.0)--in effect,
    "erasing" the weights that are already on a surface. To see this
    effect, "Normalize Weights" must be turned *off* in the Deform SOP
    or the Deform Metaball SOP.

When painting metaball group weights, the only way to change the active
group other than using the Region Selector tool is by selecting it using
the Region menu. However, clicking ((Ctrl + LMB)) will always switch
back to the previous selected group.

The state's "Visualize OP" parameter specifies which OP to use for
computing the visualization. When set to "Deform SOP", the visualization
is computed from the capture weights at the Deform SOP. When set to
"Current SOP", the visualization is computed from the capture weights at
Capture Layer Paint SOP currently being operated upon.

NOTE:
    See  [brush tools|/basics/brush]  for useful information.

== Operation Menu ==

    == Paint ==

        This paints your new weight onto the geometry.

    == Smooth ==

        This smoothly blends the weights of nearby points under the
        brush.

    == Smooth Layer ==

        This smoothly blends the weights of nearby points under the
        brush. This operation only operates on weight in the current
        layer.

    == Smooth Single Bone ==

        This smoothly blends the weights of nearby points under the
        brush. This operation only smooths the weights for the current
        bone.

    == Reduce ==

        Reduces the capture weights for the currently selected bone by
        introducing more weight to other bones affecting the geometry.

    == Erase Changes ==

        This is a local undo - it restores the points under your brush
        to the pre-capturepaint values.

    == Erase Single Bone Changes ==

        This is a local undo - it removes a single bone's paint from the
        points under your brush.

    == Region Selector ==

        Takes the region with the highest weight from the points under
        your brush, and sets it as the region you're currently painting
        with. This provides an alternative to using the Region menu for
        selecting the currently active region.

    == Circle / Square / Bitmap Brush ==

        The shape of the brush. The bitmap is set in the operation
        parameters dialog.

    == Orient Brush To Surface ==

        When disabled, the brush is always oriented the same way. This
        is useful when painting crinkly geometry.

    == Accumulate to Stencil ==

        This advanced option is described in more detail in the manual.


@parameters
    Region:
        Controls the active region for painting. The active region can
        also be set by using the Region Selector brush operation or by
        ((Ctrl + MMB)) on bones, both described above.

    Layer:

    New Layer:

    Delete Layer:

    Radius:
        The size of the brush.

    Opacity:
        How strong the brush is. A fully opaque brush replaces the
        original weight, while a less opaque brush blends it.

    Left Mouse:
        Sets the operation bound to ((LMB)). This can also be set by
        using the Operation Menu, found by ((RMB)).

    Middle Mouse:
        Sets the operation bound to ((MMB)). This can also be set by
        using the Operation Menu, found by ((RMB)).

    Highlight Current Bone:
        When painting bone capture weights, controls whether a highlight
        is drawn around the active bone.

    Visualize:
        Controls which SOP is displayed when painting.


        Current SOP:
            Displays the geometry output by the current (often the
            Display) SOP for the object containing the geometry being
            painted.
        Deform SOP:
            Displays the geometry output by the Deform or Deform
            Metaball SOP inside the object containing the geometry being
            painted.
    Visualize Type:
        Whether to use a predefined gradient or the region colors for
        visualization.


        Region Colors:
            Assigns each point a color based on the regions (bones or
            metaball groups) that weight that point. Results in an
            easy-to-view model with region colors flowing across it.
        Single Region:
            Uses the gradient specified in Visualize Mode to determine
            visualization colors.
    Visualize mode:
        The color gradient used for visualization when Visualize Type is
        set to Single Primitive.


        Infra-red:
            Utilizes the entire color spectrum, ranging from blue,
            which represents a capture weight of 0, to red, representing
            a weight of 1.
        White to Red:
            Ranges from white (0) to red (1).
        Grayscale:
            Ranges from black (0) to white (1).

-->

