#icon: OBJ/blend
#tags: modify

= Parent Blend =

"""Allows you to set multiple objects as the parent."""

This tool is useful for setting multiple objects as the parent. You can manually edit blend and parenting specifications in the [parameter editor|/ref/panes/parms]. 

NOTE:
    Once you blend the parent objects you must use the parent tool to select the children. 

This tool also allows you to filter the parenting channels.

== Using Parent Blend ==
             
    # Click the [Icon:OBJ/blend] Parent Blend tool on the __Modify__ or __Animation__ tab.
        
    # Select two or more parent objects in the desired order. Hold ((Shift)) to select multiple objects.
        
    # Press ((Enter)) to verify your selection.
    
[Image:/images/shelf/parent_blend.png]
            
You can customize blend and parenting specifications in the [parameter editor|/ref/panes/parms]. The first selected object will be named Weight 1, the second selected object will be named Weight 2, etc.

@related
    - [Parent|/shelf/parent]
    - [Parent Constraint|/shelf/parentconstraint]

<!--

The Blend operation is used to create a new object with a transform that
is a blend of transforms from up to four input objects for relative
weight blending, or an arbitrary number of inputs for sequence blending.
To use the Blend object for sequence blending, the Dynamic Parent
operation is recommended instead.

When you start the operation, you are prompted to select the objects
from which you wish to create the blended transform. Note that the order
in which the objects are selected is important as this will be the order
in which they will be connected to the newly created Blend object. Once
the objects are selected, right-click to complete the operation. Two
handles are then created. The first handle that is immediately visible
in the lower-left corner of the viewer allows you to modify the relative
weights of all the Blend object's inputs. If you change the type of the
Blend, this handle will change accordingly. The second handle is a
transform handle which allows you to manipulate the local transform of
the Blend object. By default, this handle is turned off but can be
turned on in the left viewer toolbar.

The operation controls toolbar above the viewport contains operations
for changing, adding, and replacing the Blend object's inputs.

You can specify a different set of parent objects by hitting the
Reselect Geometry button or typing `${h.pane.gview.redoselection}`. If
Secure Selection is turned off, selecting one or more new objects will
immediately complete the selection and connect the new parents.
Otherwise, you right-click to signify that the object selection is
complete.

If Secure Selection is turned off, you can select any other object in
the viewport. Doing so will switch to the operation appropriate for that
object type. The current operation will be exited immediately.

-->
